Gaussian processes are Bayesian models which associate every point an
some \emph{input space} with a probability distribution---specifically
a normal distribution, and a collection of input points will form a
multi-variate normal distribution. Gaussian processes are a
non-parametric supervised machine learning
technique\cite{barberBRML2012,mackay2003information}.

To make a prediction, we need to first have a set of prior
observations and information about the parameters of the physical
system which produced those observations. These combined form the
\emph{training data} for the predictor.
% \[ \mathcal{D} = \{ (x^n, y^n), n=1,\dots,N \} = \mathcal{X} \cup
%   \mathcal{Y}. \]

A completely untrained Gaussian process forms the job of a prior
probability distribution in a Bayesian analysis; where it is more
conventional to consider a prior over a set of, for example, real
values, such as a normal distribution, the Gaussian process forms a
prior over the functions which might form the regression fit to any
observed data. While this prior is intially untrained it still
contains information about our preconceptions of the data, for
example, whether or not we expect the fit to be analytic, and the
average of the functions.

By providing training data we can update the Gaussian process, in the
same way that the posterior distribution is updated by the addition of
new data in a standard Bayesian context, and a posterior on the set of
all possible functions to fit the data is produced. We can take the
mean of this posterior in the place of the ``best fit line'' which
other techniques produce, and then use the variance to produce an
estimate of the uncertainty of the prediction.

The possibility of using Gaussian Processes in the analysis of data
from gravitational wave detectors has been proposed by Moore and
Gair\cite{2014PhRvL.113y1101M,2016PhRvD..93f4001M} who propose its use
to calculate the uncertainties in current generation post-Newtonian
approximants to numerical relativity simulations, and to incorporate
this into the current matched-filtering analyses which are conducted
on triggers from gravitational wave detectors.

Gaussian processes trained with $N$ data require the ability to both
store and invert an $N\times N$ matrix of covariances between
observations; this can be a considerable computational challenge, and
there are a number of approaches to get around this problem, including
\emph{sparse Gaussian processes}, where a limit on the parameter-space
distance between training points is set, and the covariance of points
outside this radius are ignored\cite{EPFL-CONF-161319}, and heirarchical
methods\cite{hodlr}.

Gaussian processes can be extended from the case of a
single-dimensional input predicting a single-dimensional output to the
ability to predict a multi-dimensional output from a multi-dimensional
input\cite{Alvarez2011,Alvarez2011a,Bonilla2007}.

%%% Local Variables: 
%%% mode: latex
%%% TeX-master: "../../document"
%%% End: 